[DOCS] Add conditional compilation tutorial to official docs (#16551)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/deployment/conditional_compilation_deployment.md

> # OpenVINO conditional compilation for optimal binary size{#opevino_conditional_compilation_deploying_guide}

Reviewer: Why do we need to include this documentation on the site? Maybe we can add the reference to this documentation:
https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/master/docs/dev/conditional_compilation.md

We also don't have documentation on the site how to build OV and it is ok. I think here we have the same approach. Maybe we can have some blog post to demonstrate this functionality.

In case if anyway we would like to have this information on the site, I suppose to reuse the information from the [page](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/master/docs/dev/conditional_compilation.md)

Author: @ilyachur  this requirement is from https://jira.devtools.intel.com/browse/CVS-103482: we need a tutorial for CC deployment, which should be have different purpose with https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/master/docs/dev/conditional_compilation.md.

Reviewer 2: As the discussion, this PR will be for conditional compilation users. While [docs/dev/conditional_compilation.md|https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/master/docs/dev/conditional_compilation.md] is for contributors.

@sphinxdirective

> Conditional compilation can significantly reduce the binary size of OpenVINO™ package by excluding unnecessary components for inference of particular models, which makes the application benefit the optimal binary size.

Reviewer 3: We can delete "which makes the application benefit the optimal binary size", and state this instead -- This is particularly useful for edge and client deployment scenarios, where reducing the size of application binary is important.

.. important::

>     The cost is OpenVINO runtime will only run inference for these particular models and the device for which was applied in conditional compilation.

Reviewer 3: The tradeoff of conditional compilation is that the produced OpenVINO runtime can only run inference for the model(s) and platform(s) where conditional compilation was applied.

More details can be found `conditional_compilation_guide <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/master/docs/dev/conditional_compilation.md>`__ and `conditional_compilation_developer_guide <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/master/src/common/conditional_compilation/docs/develop_cc_for_new_component.md>`__

> There are mainly 2 stages to get optimal binary size of OpenVINO package size with conditional compilation:

Reviewer 3: There are two steps to reduce binary size of OpenVINO runtime library with conditional compilation.

Author: done

- Apply ``SELECTIVE_BUILD=COLLECT`` and ``DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=ON`` build options to enable analysis mode of conditional compilation to collect statistics data using ``itt``.

> - Apply ``SELECTIVE_BUILD=ON`` and ``SELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=<statistics_data.csv>`` build options to exclude inactive code region with the help of previous statistics data to get the final OpenVINO package.

Reviewer 3: ... and get the final OpenVINO package.

Author: done

.. note::

    Need install ``Python`` to help collect statistics data.

> Conditional compilation for different models

Reviewer 3: multiple models

Author: done

############################################

Stage 1: collecting statistics information about code usage
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- Build OpenVINO with ``SELECTIVE_BUILD=COLLECT`` option

    .. code-block:: sh

        git submodule init
        git submodule update
        mkdir build && cd build
        cmake -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=ON -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=COLLECT ..
        cmake --build .

- Build ITT collector for code usage analysis

    .. code-block:: sh

        cmake --build . --target sea_itt_lib

> - Run the target application under the ITT collector for code usage analysis for each models

Reviewer 3: code usage analysis of each model.

Author: done

            #define ov_op_v0_Relu_clone_with_new_inputs 1
            #define ov_op_v1_GroupConvolution_visit_attributes 1
            #define ov_op_v1_GroupConvolution_validate_and_infer_types 1
            #define ov_op_v1_GroupConvolution_clone_with_new_inputs 1
            #define ov_op_v3_ShapeOf_visit_attributes 1
            #define ov_op_v3_ShapeOf_validate_and_infer_types 1
            #define ov_op_v3_ShapeOf_clone_with_new_inputs 1
            #define ov_op_v0_Squeeze_visit_attributes 1
            ...

Stage 2: build resulting OpenVINO package
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Based on the statistics information, re-build OpenVINO to generate the optimal binary size of OpenVINO binaries

.. code-block:: sh

    cmake -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON -DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=${ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_STATISTICS_FILES}/*.csv -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=OFF ..
    cmake --build .

.. tip::

    The recommended scenario for conditional complication is static build of OpenVINO, in this case you can add ``-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF`` to enable static build to get optimal binary size benefit.

Conditional compilation for different ISAs
##########################################

> It is almost the same steps with the build for different models except for collecting different statistics data on different ``ISAs``.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The steps for building different models are almost the same, except for collecting different statistics data on different ``ISAs``.
```

Reviewer 4: although I feel like the meaning changed a bit, clarify/change it if possible please

Author: How about "The steps are almost same with building for different models, except for..."

> It is almost the same steps with the build for different models except for collecting different statistics data on different ``ISAs``.

Reviewer 4: please provide full abbreviations when they are first mentioned like this - Instruction Set Architectures (ISAs), same for ITT, SCU, SDE, etc.

Run the target application under the ITT collector for code usage analysis on each ``ISAs``:

    .. code-block:: sh

        python thirdparty/itt_collector/runtool/sea_runtool.py --bindir ${OPENVINO_LIBRARY_DIR} -o ${MY_MODEL_RESULT} ! ./benchmark_app -niter 1 -nireq 1 -m ${MY_MODEL}.xml

> Put all csv files together for ``stage 2`` to generate resulting OpenVINO binaries:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Put all CSV files together for ``stage 2`` to generate resulting OpenVINO binaries:
```

>     .. code-block:: sh
> 
>         cmake -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON -DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=${ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_STATISTICS_FILES}/*.csv -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=OFF ..
>         cmake --build .

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: sh

   cmake -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON -DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=${ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_STATISTICS_FILES}/*.csv -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=OFF ..
   cmake --build .
```

> Device agnostic conditional compilation (POC)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Device-agnostic Conditional Compilation (POC)
```

#############################################

> Sometimes, we need adopt conditional compilation to support multiple different ``SKUs``, but we don't have ability to collect the statistics information on every single target hardware. It requires conditional compilation have ability to run a model on an accelerator but with all previous SKUs.
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

In some cases, adopting conditional compilation is necessary to support multiple different ``SKUs``, but there may be limitations in collecting statistics information for every target hardware. To achieve this, conditional compilation must be capable of running a model on an accelerator with all previous SKUs.

```

> Conditional compilation need firstly to collect statistics information so that to exclude all unused code region, e.g. ops, kernels, which required that all included ops/kernels must be ran once at least. For multiple SKUs case, it need all ops/kernels that will be used by any one of SKUs, to be hit one time at least in the profiling data. If the profiling is done in one CPU platform, it is impossible except to adopt emulator.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Conditional compilation requires the initial collection of statistical information to exclude unused code regions, such as ops and kernels. To do this, all included ops and kernels must be executed at least once. For multiple SKUs, it is necessary for all ops and kernels that will be used by any of the SKUs to be encountered at least once in the profiling data. If the profiling is done on a CPU platform, it is impossible without using an emulator. 
```

> A simple method is to leverage `SDE <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/license/pre-release-license-agreement-for-software-development-emulator.html>`__ to emulate different CPU's SKU to generate multiple statistics csv files for different SKUs similar as below:
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A simple method is to leverage `SDE <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/license/pre-release-license-agreement-for-software-development-emulator.html>`__ to emulate different CPU's SKU to generate multiple statistics CSV files for different SKUs. For example:

```

.. code-block:: sh

    for cpu in spr adl tgl icl skl; do
        python ../thirdparty/itt_collector/runtool/sea_runtool.py --bindir ${OPENVINO_LIBRARY_DIR} -o ${MY_MODEL_RESULT} ! sde -$cpu -- ./benchmark_app -niter 1 -nireq 1 -m ${MY_MODEL}.xml
    done

> Considered that JIT kernels chosen maybe affected by L1/L2/L3 cache size and cpu core's number, there also is a simple method to emulate L2/L3 cache size and cpu core's number.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Considering that JIT kernels can be affected by L1/L2/L3 cache size and the number of CPU cores, there also is a simple method to emulate L2/L3 cache size and CPU core's number.
```

> - L2/L3 cache emulation
> 
>     Hack the function of get cache size:
> 
>         ``unsigned int dnnl::impl::cpu::platform::get_per_core_cache_size(int level)``
> 
>     to make it return emulated cache size in analyzed stage, the simplest way is to leverage environment variable to pass the emulated cache size, for example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Hack the function of get cache size:

    ``unsigned int dnnl::impl::cpu::platform::get_per_core_cache_size(int level)``

  to make it return emulated cache size in analyzed stage, the simplest way is to leverage environment variable to pass the emulated cache size, for example:
```

    .. code-block:: cpp

        #if defined(SELECTIVE_BUILD_ANALYZER)
            if (level == 2) {
                const char* L2_cache_size = std::getenv("OV_CC_L2_CACHE_SIZE");
                if (L2_cache_size) {
                    int size = std::atoi(L2_cache_size);
                    if (size > 0) {
                        return size;
                    }
                }
            } else if (level == 3) {
                const char* L3_cache_size = std::getenv("OV_CC_L3_CACHE_SIZE");
                if (L3_cache_size) {
                    int size = std::atoi(L3_cache_size);
                    if (size > 0) {
                        return size;
                    }
                }
            } else if (level == 1) {
                const char* L1_cache_size = std::getenv("OV_CC_L1_CACHE_SIZE");
                if (L1_cache_size) {
                    int size = std::atoi(L1_cache_size);
                    if (size > 0) {
                        return size;
                    }
                }
            }
        #endif

- CPU core number emulation

>     Leverage ``numactl`` tool to control core number.
> 
>     .. code-block:: sh
> 
>         python thirdparty/itt_collector/runtool/sea_runtool.py --bindir ${OPENVINO_LIBRARY_DIR} -o ${MY_MODEL_RESULT} ! numactl -C 0-$core_num ./benchmark_app -niter 1 -nireq 1 -m ${MY_MODEL}.xml

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Leverage ``numactl`` tool to control core number.

  .. code-block:: sh

    python thirdparty/itt_collector/runtool/sea_runtool.py --bindir ${OPENVINO_LIBRARY_DIR} -o ${MY_MODEL_RESULT} ! numactl -C 0-$core_num ./benchmark_app -niter 1 -nireq 1 -m ${MY_MODEL}.xml
```

> Once the SKUs are decided, we can collect cpu information(CPUID, L1/L2/L3 cache size, core number) and then profile each pair of (CPUID, L1/L2/L3 cache size, core number) to get profiling csv files, then apply all csv files to generate final conditional compilation package.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Once the SKUs are decided, you can collect CPU information(CPUID, L1/L2/L3 cache size, core number) and then profile each pair of (CPUID, L1/L2/L3 cache size, core number) to get profiling CSV files, then apply all CSV files to generate final conditional compilation package.
```

> Such work can be done in a single machine as below: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Example of generation a conditional compilation package on a single system: 
```

>     .. code-block:: sh
> 
>         export OV_CC_L1_CACHE_SIZE=<L1 cache size>
>         export OV_CC_L2_CACHE_SIZE=<L2 cache size>
>         export OV_CC_L3_CACHE_SIZE=<L3 cache size>
>         python thirdparty/itt_collector/runtool/sea_runtool.py --bindir ${OPENVINO_LIBRARY_DIR} -o ${MY_MODEL_RESULT} ! sde -spr -- numactl -C 0-$core_num ./benchmark_app -niter 1 -nireq 1 -m ${MY_MODEL}.xml

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

.. code-block:: sh

   export OV_CC_L1_CACHE_SIZE=<L1 cache size>
   export OV_CC_L2_CACHE_SIZE=<L2 cache size>
   export OV_CC_L3_CACHE_SIZE=<L3 cache size>
   python thirdparty/itt_collector/runtool/sea_runtool.py --bindir ${OPENVINO_LIBRARY_DIR} -o ${MY_MODEL_RESULT} ! sde -spr -- numactl -C 0-$core_num ./benchmark_app -niter 1 -nireq 1 -m ${MY_MODEL}.xml
```

> Do above steps for each SKUs information(CPUID, L1/L2/L3 cache size, core number) to collect all generated statistics csv files together, and provide them to build resulting OpenVINO package.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Perform the above steps for each SKUs information (CPUID, L1/L2/L3 cache size, core number) to collect all generated statistics CSV files together, and provide them to build resulting OpenVINO package.
```

>     .. code-block:: sh
> 
>         cmake -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON -DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=${ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_STATISTICS_FILES}/*.csv -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=OFF ..
>         cmake --build .

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: sh

   cmake -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON -DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=${ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_STATISTICS_FILES}/*.csv -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=OFF ..
   cmake --build .
```

> How to enable conditional compilation on Windows

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
How to Enable Conditional Compilation on Windows
```

################################################

> Reference: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/wiki/StaticLibraries

Reviewer 4: Find detailed information in the `Building OpenVINO static libraries <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/blob/master/docs/dev/static_libaries.md>`__ document.

> Below is an example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```

Stage 1: Selective build analyzed stage
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

    Build OpenVINO with conditional compilation enabled:

>     .. code-block:: sh
> 
>         call C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvar64.bat
>         set OPENVINO_HOME=D:\work_path\openvino
>         cd %OPENVINO_HOME%
>         md build_cc
>         cd build_cc
>         cmake -G Ninja -Wno-dev -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DENABLE_CPPLINT=OFF -DCMAKE_VERBOSE_MAKEFILE=ON -DCMAKE_COMPILE_WARNING_AS_ERROR=OFF -DENABLE_FASTER_BUILD=ON -DENABLE_SANITIZER=OFF -DTHREADING=TBB -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=ON -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=COLLECT -DENABLE_INTEL_GPU=OFF  -DENABLE_INTEL_GNA=OFF -DENABLE_MULTI=OFF -DENABLE_AUTO=OFF -DENABLE_AUTO_BATCH=OFF -DENABLE_HETERO=OFF -DENABLE_TEMPLATE=OFF -DENABLE_OV_ONNX_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_PADDLE_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_PYTORCH_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_TF_FRONTEND=OFF -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=install ..
> 
>         cmake --build . --config Debug

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: sh

   call C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\Community\VC\Auxiliary\Build\vcvar64.bat
   set OPENVINO_HOME=D:\work_path\openvino
   cd %OPENVINO_HOME%
   md build_cc
   cd build_cc
   cmake -G Ninja -Wno-dev -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DENABLE_CPPLINT=OFF -DCMAKE_VERBOSE_MAKEFILE=ON -DCMAKE_COMPILE_WARNING_AS_ERROR=OFF -DENABLE_FASTER_BUILD=ON -DENABLE_SANITIZER=OFF -DTHREADING=TBB -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=ON -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=COLLECT -DENABLE_INTEL_GPU=OFF  -DENABLE_INTEL_GNA=OFF -DENABLE_MULTI=OFF -DENABLE_AUTO=OFF -DENABLE_AUTO_BATCH=OFF -DENABLE_HETERO=OFF -DENABLE_TEMPLATE=OFF -DENABLE_OV_ONNX_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_PADDLE_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_PYTORCH_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_TF_FRONTEND=OFF -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=install ..

   cmake --build . --config Debug
```

    Collect statistics data

>     .. code-block:: sh
> 
>         cd %OPENVINO_HOME%\build_cc
>         cmake --build . --config Debug --target sea_itt_lib
>         cd %OPENVINO_HOME%
>         set PATH=%PATH%;%OPENVINO_HOME%\\temp\tbb\bin
>         mkdir cc_data
>         cd %OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data
>         python3 ..\thirdparty\itt_collector\runtool\sea_runtool.py --bindir ..\bin\intel64\Debug -o %OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data\data ! ..\bin\intel64\Debug\benchmark_app.exe -niter 1 -nireq 1 -m <your_model.xml>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: sh

   cd %OPENVINO_HOME%\build_cc
   cmake --build . --config Debug --target sea_itt_lib
   cd %OPENVINO_HOME%
   set PATH=%PATH%;%OPENVINO_HOME%\\temp\tbb\bin
   mkdir cc_data
   cd %OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data
   python3 ..\thirdparty\itt_collector\runtool\sea_runtool.py --bindir ..\bin\intel64\Debug -o %OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data\data ! ..\bin\intel64\Debug\benchmark_app.exe -niter 1 -nireq 1 -m <your_model.xml>
```

.. note::

>     This stage is for profiling data, so build with Debug or Release will be up to you.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    This stage is for profiling data. The choice of whether to build with Debug or Release depends on your specific requirements. 
```

Stage 2: build resulting OpenVINO package
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Generate final optimal binaries size of OpenVINO package

>     .. code-block:: sh
> 
>         cd %OPENVINO_HOME%
>         md build
>         cd build
> 
>         cmake -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64 -DENABLE_CPPLINT=OFF -DCMAKE_VERBOSE_MAKEFILE=ON -DCMAKE_COMPILE_WARNING_AS_ERROR=OFF -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DENABLE_FASTER_BUILD=ON -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=OFF -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON -DENABLE_INTEL_GPU=OFF -DENABLE_INTEL_GNA=OFF -DENABLE_MULTI=OFF -DENABLE_AUTO=OFF -DENABLE_AUTO_BATCH=OFF -DENABLE_HETERO=OFF -DENABLE_TEMPLATE=OFF -DENABLE_OV_ONNX_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_PADDLE_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_PYTORCH_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_TF_FRONTEND=OFF -DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=%OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data\*.csv -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF -DENABLE_LTO=ON -DENABLE_ONEDNN_FOR_GPU=OFF -DENABLE_GAPI_PREPROCESSING=OFF -DENABLE_OV_TF_LITE_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_CLDNN=OFF -DENABLE_PROFILING_FIRST_INFERENCE=OFF -DENABLE_INTEL_MYRIAD_COMMON=OFF -DENABLE_INTEL_MYRIAD=OFF ..
> 
>         cmake --build . --config Release

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: sh

   cd %OPENVINO_HOME%
   md build
   cd build

   cmake -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64 -DENABLE_CPPLINT=OFF -DCMAKE_VERBOSE_MAKEFILE=ON -DCMAKE_COMPILE_WARNING_AS_ERROR=OFF -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DENABLE_FASTER_BUILD=ON -DENABLE_PROFILING_ITT=OFF -DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON -DENABLE_INTEL_GPU=OFF -DENABLE_INTEL_GNA=OFF -DENABLE_MULTI=OFF -DENABLE_AUTO=OFF -DENABLE_AUTO_BATCH=OFF -DENABLE_HETERO=OFF -DENABLE_TEMPLATE=OFF -DENABLE_OV_ONNX_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_PADDLE_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_PYTORCH_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_OV_TF_FRONTEND=OFF -DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=%OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data\*.csv -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF -DENABLE_LTO=ON -DENABLE_ONEDNN_FOR_GPU=OFF -DENABLE_GAPI_PREPROCESSING=OFF -DENABLE_OV_TF_LITE_FRONTEND=OFF -DENABLE_CLDNN=OFF -DENABLE_PROFILING_FIRST_INFERENCE=OFF -DENABLE_INTEL_MYRIAD_COMMON=OFF -DENABLE_INTEL_MYRIAD=OFF ..

   cmake --build . --config Release
```

.. tip::

>     ``-DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON`` and ``-DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=%OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data\*.csv`` is must, and ``-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF`` is recommended.

Reviewer 5: Could we have an indication here of being able to give multiple .csv files to represent multiple model stats?

Author: `*.csv` means to apply all csv files.

>     ``-DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON`` and ``-DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=%OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data\*.csv`` is must, and ``-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF`` is recommended.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    ``-DSELECTIVE_BUILD=ON`` and ``-DSELECTIVE_BUILD_STAT=%OPENVINO_HOME%\cc_data\*.csv`` are required, and ``-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF`` is recommended.
```
